[MUSIC PLAYING]
KAYCE BASQUES: Salutations.
We've got seven new features
and one minor change
coming to DevTools in Chrome 73.
Logpoints let you log
messages to the console
without cluttering up your code
with console.log statements.
First, you need to open a
file in the Sources panel.
A fast way to do
that when you know
the file name is to press
Control-O, or Command-O on Mac,
type the file name,
then press Enter.
To add a logpoint,
right-click a line number
and select Add Logpoint.
In the Breakpoint Editor,
type the expression
that you want to
log to the console.
Side note, check out the
Art of Debugging article
that we've linked to
in the description
to learn more about this
handy shorthand syntax.
When your expression is
ready, press Enter to save it.
The next time that
the code runs,
the result of the logpoint
is logged to the console.
First I'll press
Escape so that we
can see the console directly.
In this case, I need to
reload the page in order
for this code to run.
As expected, the expression
has been logged to the console.
To temporarily
deactivate the logpoint,
hold Shift and then click it.
To delete a logpoint, just
give it a regular click.
When inspecting a
node, DevTools now
shows an expanded tool tip
containing commonly needed
information about the node.
To enter Inspect mode,
press Control-Shift-C,
or Command-Shift-C on Mac, or
click the Inspect Mode icon.
Back in an earlier
version of Chrome,
when I hover over a node, I just
see the node type and its size.
When I do the same
in Chrome 73, I
see the node's color,
font, margin, and contrast.
Code coverage data can now
be exported as a JSON file.
To open the Coverage tab,
press Control-Shift-P,
or Command-Shift-P on Mac,
to open the Command menu.
Start typing Coverage
then select Show Coverage.
To review, when I
reload the page,
DevTools tells me how
much code from each file
is actually being used.
When I click a file, I see
a line-by-line breakdown.
To export the
code, click Export,
which downloads the
data as a JSON file.
The URL property describes
what file is analyzed,
the Arranges property
describes the portions of code
that were used, and
the Text property
contains the full
text of the file.
In this example,
the JSON is telling
me that the substring
between index 0
and index 21 of the
text string was used
as well as the substring
between index 49 and index 71.
To extract the used
code, I would just
concatenate these substrings.
The console can now be
navigated with a keyboard.
To start navigating the
console with a keyboard,
press Shift-Tab.
Use the Up and Down
arrow keys to select
messages or parts of a message.
When a URL is selected,
pressing Enter
opens that file in a new tab
if it's an external file.
To expand a message,
you need to first select
the whole message, which is
indicated by a blue background,
and then press the
Right arrow key.
Pressing Enter on a
link to a page resource
opens up the Sources
panel for scripts
or the Network panel
for network requests.
To collapse, press Left to
reflect the message then
press Left again.
The Color Picker now shows a AAA
contrast ratio line in addition
to the AA line.
To see contrast ratio
information in the Color
Picker, enter Inspect Mode,
select a node containing text,
go to the Styles pane, click
the box next to the node's color
property, then click Show More.
Since this node meets
the AAA recommendation,
anything below this line also
meets the AAA recommendation,
which is considered
very readable.
Anything between the two lines
meets the AA recommendation
but does not meet the AAA one.
In other words, this is the
bare minimum for readability.
And anything above the
top line doesn't even
satisfy the AA recommendation,
which is considered unreadable.
Custom geolocation overrides can
now be saved across sessions.
Press Control-Shift-P, or
Command-Shift-P on Mac,
to open the Command menu.
Start typing Sensors
then select Show Sensors.
The Sensors tab is
where you can manually
override your geolocation
while DevTools is open.
Click Manage, then
click Add Location.
Enter the name, latitude,
and longitude of your custom
location, then click Add.
The Sources and Network panels
now support code folding.
To enable code folding, press
F1 to open Settings, scroll
to the Sources section,
then check the Code Folding
checkbox.
To fold a section of code,
hover near the line number
and press the Fold icon.
The name of the tab for
inspecting WebSocket messages
has changed.
When you wanted to inspect
WebSocket connections
in earlier versions of
Chrome, the Frames tab
was where you inspected
the upstream and downstream
messages.
As of Chrome 73, this tab is
now called the Messages tab.
Its behavior is
the same as before.
Here's a bonus tip about
a lesser-known DevTools
feature that has been
around for a long time.
The Network panel
supports special keywords
that let you filter
network resources based
on certain properties
of each resource.
To log network activity,
I'll go to the Network
panel then reload the page.
To filter by domain,
I type Domain:
and I see a list of
domains of page resources.
To only share resources
larger than 10 kilobytes,
I type larger-than:
and then select 10k.
Check out the Filter Requests by
Property section in our Network
Reference to see the
full list of keywords.
That's all, folks.
Send me questions and
feedback in the comments
and see you in six
weeks for Chrome 74.
[MUSIC PLAYING]